ML-RHDEVDOCS-2756: Added a new section for monitoring Argo CD instances (#62018)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-monitoring-argo-cd-health-using-prometheus-metrics.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cicd/gitops/monitoring-argo-cd-instances.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-monitoring-argo-cd-health-using-promethous-metrics_{context}"]
= Monitoring Argo CD health using Prometheus metrics

> You can monitor an Argo CD application's health status with Prometheus metrics queries.

Reviewer: It should be the application's health, not instance's

> You can monitor an Argo CD application's health status with Prometheus metrics queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can monitor the health status of an Argo CD application by running Prometheus metrics queries against it.
```

.Procedure

> . In the *Developer* perspective of the web console, select the namespace on which your Argo CD application is installed, and navigate to *Observe* -> Metrics.

Reviewer: Just a nitpick

. To check the health status of an Argo CD instance, enter PromQL query in the custom queries field:
+
.Example

> [source, query]
> ----
> sum(argocd_app_info{dest_namespace=~"YOUR_DEFINED_NAMESPACE",health_status!=""}) by (health_status)
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source, query]
----
sum(argocd_app_info{dest_namespace=~"<your_defined_namespace>",health_status!=""}) by (health_status) <1>
----
<1> The name of your defined namespace. For example, replace the `<your_defined_namespace>` variable with `openshift-gitops`.
+
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cicd/gitops/monitoring-argo-cd-instances.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-monitoring-argo-cd-health-using-promethous-metrics_{context}"]
= Monitoring Argo CD health using Prometheus metrics

You can monitor Argo CD health status by using Prometheus metrics queries.

.Procedure

. On the {product-title} web console, to switch *Developer*'s preview.

> . In *Developer*'s preview, select the namespace on which an Argo CD application is installed, go to *Observe* and then select the Metrics tab.

Reviewer 3: In the Developer perspective of the web console, and navigate to the *Observe* --> *Metrics*. Your project should be `openshift-gitops` where your Argo CD application is installed.

. To check the health status of an Argo CD instance, enter PromQL query in the custom queries field:
+
.Example
[source, query]
----

> sum(argocd_app_info{dest_namespace=~"default",health_status!=""}) by (health_status)

Reviewer 3: the namespace here should be the namespace we defined above, `openshift-gitops`, not `default`
